Good morning.
My name is Chris,
and I have the pleasure of
speaking to you guys today
about the Core Motion framework,
and more specifically,
what's new in Core Motion in iOS 5.
We have some great features that
I think you're going to love.
So here's some more
details on our agenda.
We'll start off talking about an idea
that I have for an app that I think would
be really great to see in the store.
We'll talk about the basics
of using Core Motion,
how to start and stop
different types of data,
and tell us how often you want to
receive different types of data.
We'll write some code.
Then we'll deep dive into some of the
new features of Core Motion and talk
about how you can use them in your apps.
And then we'll talk about one very common
use case of the data from Core Motion,
and that is to control a
camera into some 3D world.
We'll give you some tips.
on how to do that.
But before we talk about any of that,
let me give you a quick overview of
what's new in Core Motion in iOS 5.
So the first thing that we're
providing now is raw magnetometer
data through Core Motion.
Next thing is North-referenced
attitude data.
And if that doesn't
make any sense to you,
it will in a few minutes,
so stick with us.
The final thing that we're
supporting in iOS 5 is the use
of Core Motion in the background.
So if your application already has
permission to run in the background
to use something like location,
you can now use
Core Motion at the same time.
So let's set the stage.
Let's talk about this idea for an app.
So there are a lot of turn-by-turn
navigation apps in the App Store,
and they're awesome.
I mean, they're one of our most
popular categories of apps,
and they're just so incredibly useful.
But all of them render directions and
places of interest on some sort of
artificial rendition of the application.
So we're going to talk about the
core location of the real world.
We don't have anything like an
augmented reality turn-by-turn
navigation app that gives you maybe
a live camera feed out of the front
of your windshield with directions,
street names,
places of interest overlaid on
top of that augmented reality
view in the appropriate locations.
So what would we need to achieve this?
Well, we'd really need two things.
The first thing is your location,
of course.
We know that the core location framework
does a great job of providing you.
The next thing we need is attitude,
or how your device is rotated
with respect to the world,
whether it's tilted,
whether it's facing north, south, east,
west, that kind of thing.
And that's something that
Core Motion can help you with.
So it would be great if
Core Motion could use a single
attitude sensor that would give you a
great estimate of attitude directly.
But if things aren't quite that simple,
we actually have to use three
sensors that complement each other
in order to calculate attitude.
So let's talk briefly
about what those are.
The first sensor is a gyroscope,
and this measures the rate at which the
device is rotating around each axis,
and it's very,
very responsive to that and very precise.
So what this will let you
do is get a really accurate,
really responsive estimate of
how attitude is changing from
one point in time to another.
If you integrate this data.
And Core Motion will provide
the raw gyroscope data to your
app if you'd like to use that.
The next sensor is one that you're
probably more familiar with,
and that's the accelerometer.
It's a sensor that we've
had in every single iPhone,
every single iPad, and every single iPod
Touch that we've ever shipped.
And this measures the sum of
gravity plus whatever acceleration
the user is giving the device,
and we call that user acceleration.
Now, if you'd like to use the
raw accelerometer data,
we provide that to your app
through Core Motion as well.
And in fact,
the old interface for getting
accelerometer data through
UIKit is being deprecated in iOS 5.
So Core Motion is really the new
home for raw accelerometer data.
The next sensor is the magnetometer.
Now, if you've ever used the
Core Location and Compass framework,
or if you've ever used
Compass Mode and Maps,
or the standalone
Compass application that we have,
you've used the magnetometer.
And this measures basically
the local magnetic field
that's surrounding the chip.
And we can use this to determine
which direction your device is facing,
north, south, east, west,
that kind of thing.
And now in iOS 5,
the raw magnetometer data is available
to your app through Core Motion as well.
Thank you.
So these sensors are great by themselves,
but there are some challenges to
working with them in isolation.
So with the gyroscope,
you have no absolute attitude reference.
You can integrate the data to tell you
how the attitude is changing over time,
but it doesn't give you any sort
of world-referenced starting point,
basically.
The other two issues with the
gyroscope are you have to worry
about bias and scale error.
Now, bias basically means that if
the device is not rotating,
you would actually measure a
non-zero value from the gyroscope,
as opposed to the ideal value of zero.
So what that means for you is if
you're integrating the data to
compute how attitude is changing,
and you don't correctly
compensate for that bias,
then your attitude error
will grow with time,
regardless of how the device is rotating.
So the x-axis on this plot is time.
So the other challenge to working
with the gyroscope is dealing
with what's called scale error.
So what this means is the
gyroscope will actually read the
true rotation rate times some of
the data that you're generating.
So if you're integrating this data,
you're going to have some fraction that
could be greater than or less than one.
What that means for you,
if you're integrating this data,
is you'll have an attitude
error that grows with how
far the device is rotating.
So the x-axis in this plot
is the amount of rotation.
With the accelerometer,
if you want to measure
attitude using this,
you can isolate gravity,
and that'll give you two
components to attitude.
It'll tell you how the device is
tilted with respect to gravity.
But it can't measure any sort
of rotation around gravity.
Anything that doesn't cause gravity,
as seen by the device,
to change won't be picked up.
The other challenges are,
if you do want to use
this to measure gravity,
you'll have to apply some filtering.
You have to use a low-pass filter to
isolate gravity from user acceleration.
Now,
the more heavily you low-pass filter,
the more latency you'll
introduce in your data.
So there are some drawbacks to this.
If you're interested in the user
acceleration or shaking component
to the accelerometer data,
you'll have to use a high-pass
filter to isolate that.
Now, the magnetometer is arguably
the most challenging sensor to
work with on mobile devices.
It's susceptible to not just
interference caused by the device itself,
so electronics within the
device turning on and off,
or distortions to magnetic fields
caused by other metals in the device,
but it's also susceptible to
interference from objects in the
real world external to the device.
So normally when you use this,
what you really care about
is measuring the magnetic
field generated by the Earth.
Unfortunately, that's very,
very small compared to the
fields that are generated by a
lot of really common objects,
like computers and
refrigerators and power lines.
So the solution to a lot of these
challenges is to use all three
sensors in tandem with each other.
And we provide algorithms to
do just that in Core Motion.
We call the output of these
algorithms device motion,
and you can get,
among other things from them,
full three-dimensional attitudes,
so how the device is tilted,
as well as whether it's facing north,
south, east, west.
And that attitude is very responsive to
changes in it because of the gyroscope.
So now that you've gotten an overview
of what's available in Core Motion,
let's go through the basics
of how to use Core Motion.
So your main control center
for Core Motion is an object
called CM Motion Manager.
And this is how you will tell
Core Motion which types of
data you'd like to receive,
as well as how you will
start and stop updates,
and tell Core Motion how often you'd
like to update different types of data.
Core Motion will send different
types of sensor data to your
application in different objects.
So there's an object of call-- excuse me.
There's class CM accelerometer data that
incorporates the raw accelerometer data,
CM gyro data for the raw gyro data,
CM magnetometer for the
raw magnetometer data,
and CM device motion for the
sensor fusion or device motion
data that we talked about.
Now, a big part of CM device motion is
a property of type CM attitude,
which contains this
three-dimensional attitude.
And we'll spend a lot of time
later on talking about that.
So there are two methods to
retrieving data from Core Motion,
push and pull.
With push,
you need to provide an NSOperationQueue
and a block to Core Motion.
And then Core Motion,
whenever a sample of data
comes in for your app,
will execute a new instance of that
block in that NSOperationQueue.
With pull,
all you have to do is periodically ask
CM Motion Manager for the latest sample
of data that you're interested in.
And this is often done when your view is
updated within a CA DisplayLink callback,
for instance, in a game.
So there are some trade-offs to
these two different approaches.
With Push, you've got the advantage that
you never miss a sample of data.
If we get 10 samples of data for the
sensor that are destined for your app,
then you will get all
10 of those samples.
A big disadvantage is that there
is increased overhead to using
this over pulling for data.
And oftentimes,
especially if you have a very
interactive application such as a game,
if your app gets a little bit behind
and can't keep up with the high
rate of data that's coming at it,
really your best bet is to
just drop a few samples,
cut your losses, and catch up.
So for these reasons,
we recommend this predominantly
for data collection apps.
Now,
pulling for data is a lot more efficient.
And then oftentimes,
there is actually less code required,
particularly if you already have
a periodic event coming in that
determines when you need data.
A disadvantage is that if you don't
already have such an event coming in,
then you may need to set up an additional
timer upon which you'll pull for data.
But despite this, we recommend this for
most apps and games,
definitely any interactive applications.
Let's talk about threading for a moment.
So Core Motion creates its own
thread to do two big things.
One is to handle raw
data from the sensors,
and then the other thing is
to run these device motion
or sensor fusion algorithms.
So what that means for your apps is that
Core Motion will never do any of its
own processing on your threads at all.
The only thing that will execute
on your threads is exactly
what you want to execute.
So how do you use Core Motion?
Well, there are three big steps.
First step is setup.
Second step is retrieving data.
And the third step is cleanup.
Let's walk through those.
Now, in this example,
let's say that we're interested in
pulling for raw accelerometer data.
So to setup, we'll first need to create a
CM Motion Manager instance,
as you see there.
Next step,
we always want to check to make
sure that the data that we're
interested in is available on
the platform we're running on.
So we're interested in
accelerometer data now,
so we'll check CM Motion Manager's
"Is Accelerometer Available" property.
And there are corresponding
properties for gyro data,
magnetometer data, and device motion.
And as always, if the data that we're
interested in is not available,
we want to fail gracefully.
The next step is to set the
desired update interval.
So in this case,
we'll say that we're interested
in 60 hertz accelerometer data.
So we'll set the accelerometer
update interval property to 1/60.
And again, there are corresponding update
interval properties for gyro data,
magnetometer data, and device motion.
The final step in setup is to start the
actual data that we're interested in.
So here, since we're pulling for data,
all we'll do is call start
accelerometer updates.
That will cause Core Motion to
turn on the accelerometer and
start retrieving data in the
background and caching it for us.
And then we'll just pull
when we're interested.
Now, if we wanted to have
Core Motion push each sample to us,
then we could have called start
accelerometer updates to queue
with handler and pass that
NSOperation queue and block.
The next step is to retrieve
data when we're interested.
So here we're looking
for accelerometer data.
So all we'll do is examine the
accelerometer data property of our
motion manager whenever we're interested,
and that'll contain the latest
cached sample that we've
gotten from the sensors.
And again,
there are corresponding properties
for the latest sample of gyro data,
magnetometer data,
and device motion data if you've
turned on those types of data.
So the final step is to clean up.
We always want to do this
when we're done with sensors.
That'll allow Core Motion to actually
turn off the relevant chips if
they're not being used anymore,
and will ultimately save
your users some battery.
So here we'll call stop
accelerometer updates,
and there are corresponding stop methods
for the other types of data as well.
And then we'll go ahead and release
our motion manager instance.
So just to recap,
there are two methods to
receiving data from Core Motion,
push and pull.
All processing is done on
Core Motion's own thread.
There are three steps
to using Core Motion,
set up, retrieve data, and clean up.
With that,
I would like to invite my colleague,
Xiaoyuan Tu,
on stage to walk you through the steps
of modifying an application that uses
the existing UI kit accelerometer API to
use Core Motion for accelerometer data.
Xiaoyuan?
Thank you, Chris.
In this demo, we're going to do a
simple exercise together.
We're going to modify an existing
sample app to use Core Motion.
This app is called Accelerometer Graph.
Many of you may be familiar with it.
It plots a three-axis
accelerometer value over time.
And this app has been
there since iOS 2.0.
It's a little outdated now,
in that it uses UIKit to
access the accelerometer data,
which is a deprecated method now.
The new and proper way to
access all motion sensor-related
features is Core Motion.
So adopting Core Motion allows
you to take advantage of all the
additional motion features that are
to do-- not only with accelerometer,
but also the gyroscope, the magnetometer,
and all the cool stuff that are based
on fusing all three sensors together,
like what Chris has just told you about.
And as you will soon see,
it's very straightforward and
simple to use Core Motion.
In a nutshell, it's a win-win situation.
And if you have code that still uses
UIKit to access accelerometer data--
It's high time to switch to Core Motion.
Okay, so let's begin.
Actually, before that,
I'd like to walk you
through some deprecated data
structures that were in UIKit.
When you make the switch
from UIKit to Core Motion,
you want to update these data structures
to their Core Motion counterpart.
So the first one you want to
update is UI accelerometer object.
Its shiny new counterpart in
Core Motion is CM Motion Manager.
That allows you to access all
the other features as well.
So to borrow a Chinese phrase,
means you're switching
from a BB gun to a cannon.
The second one, UI acceleration,
is a data structure that holds
the three accelerometer values.
The new data structure in
Core Motion is CM accelerometer
data that not only holds the three
access accelerometer data values,
but also the timestamp of the sample,
which is actually really
important for many apps.
The third one is UI accelerometer value,
which is a type def.
Now it's simply double,
and that's all you need to update,
switching from UIKit to Core Motion.
Okay, let's now do some coding.
Super.
Great.
So it's already loaded.
Magical.
Accelerometer graph.
So to use Core Motion,
the first step to do is to add the
Core Motion framework to your project.
So click on the project.
Sorry, here.
You go to build faces and find link
binary with libraries and click on that.
And that shows you all the
frameworks that's already included.
And you want to add the
Core Motion framework,
click on plus sign.
And that will give you a pull-down
menu that shows you all the available
frameworks that you can add.
So I'm just going to go
ahead and type Core Motion.
Thank you.
Okay, let's find it.
There you go.
Add.
Now it's added there.
Great.
Simple.
The second step to do is to import
the Core Motion header file,
and we're going to add
that to the prefix file,
which is here.
All right.
We're going to add--
let's make a space for it.
Let's drag it here.
There you go.
Import Core Motion, coremotion.h.
Simple.
That's two steps you need to do.
First, add the Core Motion framework,
and then import the header.
Now we're ready to go
actually modify some code.
There are basically three things to do.
The first is to insert some new code
that does the setup of Core Motion,
retrieve the accelerometer data, use it,
and then clean up.
The second thing to do is to remove
or comment out the deprecated
stuff that used to be in there.
And the third one is to go
through your code and find those
deprecated data structures that
I just showed you and update them
to their Core Motion counterparts.
So let's do that.
So the first thing to do,
we want to declare the
Core Motion CM Manager instance.
We're going to do that in the
main view controller header file.
We're going to do that here.
Main View Controller.
Make a space for it.
And...
[Transcript missing]
And the old,
deprecated one that we were using
is this UI accelerometer object.
We find it here.
Let's just comment that out.
Okay, now we've declared the
Motion Manager instance.
Let's go to the implementation.
In here, we just need to make
changes to three places.
The first one is in viewDidLoad.
In that function, we'd like to go ahead
and set up Core Motion.
So let's go here and drag
that code snippet here.
Okay, let's actually go through line
by line this code snippet here.
The first line, as you can see,
we allocate that motion manager instance,
and then we set the
Accelerometer update interval
to K update frequency,
which is instantly set to 60.
So we set a 60 hertz interval,
a 60 hertz update frequency.
And the cert line here,
we're going to call start
accelerometer update to Q,
which is a push method to
get the accelerometer data.
Because this is essentially
a data collection app,
we don't want to miss any samples.
So after that,
we turn on the accelerometer
and ask it to update.
Then if the view is not paused,
let's go ahead and retrieve those
accelerometer values to use them.
That's showing this block of code.
All right.
And actually here,
you can see the UI accelerometer
objects that were now obsolete,
well, deprecated.
So let's go ahead and comment those out.
All right.
So the next function we want
to add the cleanup to is the
pairing function viewDidUnload.
That's where we want to put our code,
insert our code to clean up Core Motion.
So let's drag this code snippet here.
Very simple, only two lines.
The first one is to tell the
accelerometer to stop updates,
so turn that off.
And then the second line to
simply release Motion Manager.
So we're pretty much done with
setting up and retrieving used data,
and then clean up in Vue.did_unload.
And we go ahead,
and that's the deprecated--
method for UI accelerometer delegates.
So we go ahead and comment that out.
So we're essentially done.
We've done the two steps,
insert code to set up Core Motion to
use and then clean up.
The second step is to, you know,
while you're at it,
go comment out all the method and stuff.
So finally,
what you really need to do is to go
through the rest of your code and update
those data structure showing here,
which is the UI acceleration,
change that to CM accelerometer
data and UI acceleration value,
simply replace that with double.
And you're done.
Really simple and straightforward.
So actually now let me switch two
I'm going to use the iPad to show you
the accelerometer graph app in action.
Actually,
it also shows you high-pass or low-pass
filtered accelerometer value as well.
With that,
I'll pass the ring back to Chris.
Thanks, Xiaoyuan.
Well, that was easy.
You guys are all now experts
in using CM Motion Manager.
So let's get into the juicy stuff now.
Let's talk about device motion,
and we'll talk along the way about
a lot of the new stuff that we've
added in Core Motion in iOS 5.
[Transcript missing]
The first new reference frame that we
have in iOS 5 is almost not really a new
reference frame as a new way of turning
on additional correction in Core Motion.
So it's called CM Attitude Reference
Frame X Arbitrary Corrected Z Vertical.
Now, again,
this is the same as the previous frame
in that you have no control over where
your X and Y reference frame axes point.
But the big difference is that we will
also turn on the magnetometer in addition
to the accelerometer and gyroscope,
and use that opportunistically whenever
it happens to be calibrated to correct
for any accumulation in Yaw error.
So ultimately what this means
for you is that you end up with
better long-term Yaw accuracy,
but because we have to turn on that
additional sensor and pipe data into
the CPU and do a little bit more math,
you will incur higher CPUs.
So you will have a higher
CPU usage if you use this over
the original reference frame.
And another potential downside is if
your user is in an environment where
there's a lot of variation in the
external magnetic field in space,
in their vicinity,
you might be a little bit more
sensitive to that with this reference
frame than the previous one.
So one of the really,
really useful new reference frames,
I think, especially for augmented
reality app developers,
is called CM Attitude Reference
Frame X Magnetic North Z Vertical.
So in this reference frame,
unlike the other ones,
you're actually guaranteed that your
reference frame's x-axis will be pointing
in the direction of magnetic north,
or to be more precise,
in the direction of the projection of
magnetic north onto the horizontal plane.
And then, of course,
your y-axis will just complete a
right-handed coordinate system,
as always.
Now,
there are some drawbacks to using this.
The main one is that, you know,
in order to actually know where
magnetic north is to define your
reference coordinate system,
the magnetometer has to be calibrated,
which may require the
user to take some action,
as if you've ever used, you know,
Compass Mode in Maps or the
Compass app you may have seen.
Core Motion has the ability to
display the same Compass calibration
HUD that's used by the
Core Location Compass framework
and any apps that use that,
if you request that we
display it when necessary.
So to do that,
you'll just set the "shows device
movement display" to "yes" on
your CM Motion Manager instance.
By default,
it's "no," so we'll never show that HUD.
But if you'd like us to, set it to "yes."
The final new reference frame that
we're making available in iOS 5
is called CM Attitude Reference
Frame X True North Z Vertical.
It's very similar to the previous one,
except your X axis will be
pointing towards True North as
opposed to Magnetic North.
So you might be asking yourself now,
"Hey, what's the difference between
Magnetic North and True North?" Well,
I'll tell you.
So Magnetic North is the direction
of the Earth's magnetic field.
So it's basically, from where you are,
it's the direction to the
Earth's magnetic North Pole.
Unfortunately, that's distinct from the
Earth's True North Pole.
And the direction to that
is given by True North.
That's the direction that
we're most familiar with,
and it's the reference point
that's used in all maps,
basically.
It's not a big deal, though,
because we can calculate
this using a few things.
One is Magnetic North.
Wow.
And the other one is a model of what's
called the Magnetic Declination,
which is the difference between
True North and Magnetic North in
different places of the Earth.
And Core Location and now
Core Motion actually share a
model of what that looks like.
So if we know your approximate location,
we can look up in that model
what the declination is,
where you are,
and apply that to the attitude
data that we give you,
so that it's referenced to
True North as opposed to Magnetic North.
Now,
one complication to keep in mind here is
that we do need to know your location,
obviously, to do this.
So you'll have to use Core Location
to turn on location updates in
order to use this reference frame.
You don't have to do anything
with those location updates.
Core Motion will handle
that under the hood.
But your app does need to turn them on.
And I should note that if the only
reason that you're turning on location
updates is to use this reference frame,
you should remember that you're
not going to be able to do
that without Core Location.
So you don't have to do anything
with those location updates.
Core Motion will handle
that under the hood.
But your app does need to turn them on.
And I should note that if the only
reason that you're turning on location
updates is to use this reference frame,
you should remember that you're
not going to be able to do
that without Core Location.
So you'll have to use
this reference frame.
You should request the least
accurate location updates from
Core Location that you can.
And this is basically to
save the user's battery.
We don't need to turn on GPS or
anything like that for location here.
Just very, very coarse cell accuracy
location is fine.
So you probably noticed that all of
these reference frames are defined
such that the z-axis is vertical.
So let's go through an example to really
solidify some points that we've made.
Let's say that we have an
instance of CM Motion Manager,
and we grab the latest
device motion sample from it.
Let's say that we grab the attitude
from that device motion instance,
and we say we want it
formatted as a rotation matrix.
Now, recall that this attitude gives the
rotation from the fixed reference
frame to the device's frame.
So if we set up our gravity
vector in our reference frame,
which is always 0, 0,
minus 1 in all of these frames,
then if we just multiply
that by the rotation matrix,
that'll give us a very good estimate
of where gravity is pointing in
the device's reference frame.
Excuse me, in the device's frame.
Now, you don't actually have
to do this math yourself.
Core Motion-- CM Device Motion has
another property called gravity,
which we'll talk about now, which,
when you request it,
will basically do that math for you.
So gravity is of type CM acceleration,
and there's a corresponding similar
property called user acceleration,
which gives an estimate of the
user acceleration or shaking motion
in the device's reference frame.
Both of these are stored in structs,
and the units are type G-- excuse me,
the units are Gs.
The next property in CM device
motion is called rotation rate.
And this is essentially the best,
basically the latest sample of
gyro data that we've gotten,
minus all of the calibration, excuse me,
including all of the calibration
parameters that we've applied to it.
So we remove bias and things like that.
And this will be given to you
in units of radians per second.
And if you've ever taken a physics class,
you might remember the right-hand rule.
So that's what we use to determine the
direction of this rotation rate vector.
So basically,
if you take your right hand and
imagine curling your fingers
in the direction of rotation,
the direction that your
thumb points is the direction
that this vector will point.
A new property in CM device motion
in iOS 5 is called magnetic field,
and that basically gives our best
estimate of the direction of the
Earth's magnetic field within
the device's reference frame.
And it includes not just an
estimate of the field itself,
but also an estimate of how
well calibrated the magnetometer
is at that point in time.
So the field will be stored
in units of micro Teslas in
the CM magnetic field struct.
And the calibration accuracy
will be given in an enum.
Now, I mentioned earlier that if
you use the original reference
frame that was in iOS 4,
CM attitude reference frame
X arbitrary Z vertical,
we won't actually turn
on the magnetometer.
So if you use that reference frame,
then this calibration value
will always be uncalibrated,
because there will be no
data for us to work with.
And again, that's really to save CPU.
So let's talk about where each
of these features is available.
So iPhone 4 has an accelerometer,
gyroscope, and magnetometer,
so everything's available on iPhone 4.
iPhone 3GS lacks a gyro,
so only the raw accelerometer and
magnetometer's available on iPhone 3GS.
There's no device motion or gyro data.
iPad 2 is in the same boat as iPhone 4.
It's great.
Everything's supported.
The original iPad, though,
same as iPhone 3GS.
It doesn't have a gyro.
The latest iPod Touch is interesting.
It has an accelerometer and a gyroscope,
but no magnetometer.
So you'll be able to get the raw
data from the accelerometer and gyro,
and you'll be able to use
the original reference frame,
CM Attitude reference frame, X arbitrary,
Z vertical, on this device,
but the new reference frames
will not be available.
And the third generation iPod
Touch only has an accelerometer,
so that's all that's available.
And of course, the simulator,
none of this is supported
on the simulator.
So with that,
I would like to invite Xiaoyuan
back on stage to walk you through
using some of these new features
of Core Motion in an application.
Xiaoyuan?
Thank you, Chris.
As many of you know,
finding parking is a huge pain
in a city like San Francisco.
Wouldn't it be great if we had an
iOS app that shows you in augmented
reality view where to find available
parking as you pan your device like so?
We actually wrote a sample
app that did just that.
It's called Park,
and Park is what I'm going
to demo to you today.
So that's the Park project here.
This project essentially
demonstrates how to use Core Motion's
True North Reference Attitude API.
And it contains subclass to UIView,
which is called ARView.
ARView stands for Augmented Reality View.
And it displays a live camera feed
with places of interest overlaid
at appropriate coordinates.
And it uses core location to
determine where the user is,
and it uses Core Motion to
determine where the user is facing.
Okay, let's go look at this ARView class.
As I said earlier,
it's a subclass to UIView,
and it has a property,
an NSArray property
called PlacesOfInterest.
Let's go look at what is
contained in PlacesOfInterest.
It's an NS object that
contains two properties,
a UIView property and
a CLLocation property.
And it uses these two properties to
actually render each PlaceOfInterest.
Okay.
Actually,
before I go into the implementation,
by the way, if you want to make your
own very cool AR apps,
this AR View class, there's two files,
arview.h and arview.m.
You can pretty much just grab them and
drop them in your code and use as is.
The entire project source
code is available to download.
. After this, Chris will tell you.
All right.
Let's go look at the AR view.
I'm not going to go through the entirety.
I'm just going to go through the pieces
that are relevant to Core Motion.
How you set up Core Motion to
do the AR view.
There are just three functions here
that are to do with Core Motion:
Start device motion, Stop device motion,
and OnDisplayLink.
Let's go through each of those.
Start device motion.
All right.
OK.
In here, first, as usual,
we allocate in it a
motion manager object,
and then we set the show
device movement display to yes.
The reason that we set that to
yes is because we need to use a
true north reference attitude,
which requires that the
magnetometer be calibrated.
So you want to set that property
to yes to notify you in case the
magnetometer isn't calibrated.
It will show you the calibration
HUD so you can rotate the
device around to calibrate.
After that,
you set the device motion update
interval again to 60 hertz.
I don't know why we always say 60 hertz,
but that's a good enough frequency.
Right, and the next one,
we go ahead and start device motion
updates using reference frame TrueNorth.
And we're done.
That's all we need,
four lines to set up device motion.
And then,
In Stop Device Motion,
we stop device motion.
The first line is to stop
device motion updates here,
and we release the motion manager
to set that instance to null.
That's a pair of functions
we set up and clean up.
And on this Play link,
that's where we use it.
Here's the function.
So on display link, first of all,
we get the device motion
property from the motion manager,
and we check that this is not null.
The reason that we check it is
that we need core location to be
available for true north reference,
and we also need the
magnetometer to be calibrated.
So those conditions,
if either one is not met,
D would be null.
So we check that both conditions are met.
Then we go ahead and retrieve that
true north reference attitude in
the form of a rotation matrix,
and that is R.
And the next step is to call
transform from CM rotation matrix.
We use that R to calculate the
view matrix for the camera.
And after we update the view
matrix with our current attitude,
we go ahead and call set needs display
to tell the system to render that view.
Before we show you the demo,
Chris will spend the next few moments
to tell you how to use Core Motion's
attitude to do camera control.
Great, thanks Xiaoyuan.
All right,
so let's talk about camera control.
So one of the big use cases for
Core Motion that we see is just this,
actually.
We'll talk about two
paradigms for camera control.
One is the paradigm that's used in Park,
and I like to call that
camera-centered pivot.
Here you have some
three-dimensional world,
and the camera is at a fixed
location in that world.
And then we use the attitude data
from Core Motion to simply rotate the
camera around that point that it's at.
So there's no translation involved,
basically.
It stays at that fixed coordinate.
The next paradigm I like to
call object-centered pivot.
So in this paradigm,
we've got some object that's
centered at the origin of our world,
and we use attitude data from
Core Motion to rotate the
camera around that object,
always facing it.
So if you've ever seen the
Core Motion Teapot sample app,
that's what it uses.
And then if you saw the keynote demo
last year where Steve Jobs played
a game called Blocks,
that's the paradigm that
we used in that as well.
So let's talk about the
math behind all those.
First, some preliminaries.
If you've ever used OpenGL,
this should be very familiar to you.
So both paradigms for camera control
involve applying what are called rigid
body transformations to the camera.
And these can be described very
succinctly using a 4x4 matrix
in which the top 3x3 portion
is just a rotation matrix,
and the top three elements in the
rightmost column are the rotation matrix.
And the top three elements in the
describe a translation.
Now, for a rigid body transformation,
the bottom row of this matrix
will always be 0001 for
reasons that we won't go into,
but if you ever do a search for rigid
body transformations or homogeneous
coordinates on the internet,
you'll find a lot of information on this.
So how do we construct a rigid
body transformation matrix
for these two paradigms?
For camera-centered pivot,
let's say that the camera is fixed
at position pw in world coordinates,
and let's say that we have the latest
attitude estimate from core motion,
and we'll describe that
using a rotation matrix,
r.
Now, recall that we could get access
to that if we had a motion manager
instance called motion manager
using the code that you see here.
So what we'll need to do is use attitude
to transform the camera position in
world coordinates to device coordinates.
So to do that,
all we have to do is multiply
by that rotation matrix that
we got from Core Motion.
That'll give us a new vector called PDX,
PDY, PDZ, and that's the camera position
in device coordinates.
With that,
our 4x4 rigid body transformation
matrix for the camera view
is just what you see here.
It's got the attitude matrix from
Core Motion in the top left corner,
and then minus one times the camera
position in device coordinates
down the right-hand column.
Object-centered pivot
is actually even easier.
So here we have the camera
position in world coordinates
described by vector PW again,
and we grab our attitude from
Core Motion in rotation matrix R.
We could use the same code to get that.
Then our 4x4 transformation
matrix is simply,
you know, that attitude matrix
in the top left corner,
and then the minus 1 times the
camera position in world coordinates
down the right-hand column.
So with that,
I would like to show you Park.
So let's go to the iPad.
So here we have our augmented reality
view with locations of some pretty
suspicious sounding parking lots rendered
on top of it at the appropriate location.
The Bat Cave Drunken Valet
So in case you can't tell,
all of these parking lot names
are fake because there really
is no parking in San Francisco.
So for more information,
you can contact Alan Schaffer.
He's our graphics and game
technologies evangelist.
Check out the event handling
guide for iOS for documentation.
And our developer forums are always
a great place to post questions.
If you're interested in checking
out some related sessions,
they're given here.
The top two are about to
take place actually now,
Essential Game Technologies for iOS,
Parts 1 and 2.
And the bottom two have
already taken place,
so you'll have to check out the videos.
Thanks.